So, welcome to the Data Science Hangout.
A little different today in that I'm hosting, not Rachel.
Rachel is on a train right now, right now down to the Philadelphia area.
But this is the Data Science Hangout.
We host it every Thursday at noon, same time, same place.
There are a few ways to participate in the Hangout.
It's meant to be super casual, open conversation, questions about data science.
You can participate just by typing into the chat.
We obviously encourage that.
Raise your hand and hop in live and ask a question.
And then there's also a way to submit questions anonymously via a Slido link that my colleague
Hannah will provide.
So, do whatever you feel comfortable with.
Have your video on, video off.
Whatever you feel comfortable with, we'd love to hear from as many people as we can.
But I'm super pumped to introduce our featured leader today, J.D. Williams from Zoetis.
And I'll hand it over to you, J.D., if you want to introduce yourself.
Great.
Thank you.
Welcome, everyone.
Glad to see you all here.
I was scheduled to be here, I think it was three weeks ago, four weeks ago, I can't remember
what it was.
And I got COVID.
And you would not want me to have been here on the call at that time.
It's actually my third infection of COVID in the past three years.
I do not recommend any more than one or any infection of COVID.
But glad to be recovered.
A little bit of a groggy voice, kind of still hanging out after this time.
But hopefully you can hear me okay.
Really excited to be here.
So, I have a slide that I've used to introduce myself and that other team members on my team
have used it to introduce themselves as well.
I'll pull it up as a way to get started here.
Okay.
This is me.
So, just a little bit about me and my background.
I grew up in the Rocky Mountain West.
So, this is the area of Colorado, Idaho, Oregon, Utah.
So, I love the mountains.
And so, I live now in flat old Indianapolis, Indiana.
So, I'm a little bit depressed about the terrain or the lack thereof.
But love this location, great people, great community, great schools.
So, I live here and I'll give a little bit about that journey.
So, coming from that background, I went to Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah for
my undergraduate degree, which was in mathematics education.
My original plan was to be a high school math teacher.
And then, through the course of some events, I ended up getting into statistics.
The master's program there at BYU in the statistics program and absolutely loved it.
And then, took that opportunity to then go on to do a PhD in statistics and that was
at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia.
So, hopefully, there's some Hokies or some Cougars out there.
If you are, give a thumbs up for those alumni.
The stats program at Virginia Tech is the third oldest statistics program in the country.
And so, it has a really long history.
And the area of my dissertation research was in the area of multivariable statistical process
control, which comes actually full circle.
I'll talk a little bit about some work that we're doing in the area of manufacturing and
using Posit to help us there as well.
So, a little bit around the work experience journey.
After graduating with my PhD, started to work at GE General Electric in their research headquarters.
This was in upstate New York and really loved it there.
GE, at the time, owned a little bit of everything.
And so, you think about, you know, GE, you know, it's not just kind of light bulbs and,
you know, dishwashers and things like that, but, you know, they used to have this large
capital financial business.
So, we would, you know, lean loans and leases of all kinds of equipment.
So, that's where I got into the area of financial services.
And that led to a role with JPMorgan Chase and their analytics headquarters.
And that was actually in Columbus, Ohio.
So, moved the family to Ohio and was there for a couple years.
And that's where I really learned the concept of big data.
And by the way, this is like 2010, it's kind of timeframe, big data and just really, you
know, using vast amounts of data to make decision making.
And the banking, the financial industry, I feel like has been kind of well ahead in the
analytics curve.
You know, for example, at JPMorgan Chase, I never heard of anything in terms of an analytics
project.
It was just the way things were.
It was part of the DNA of the company.
Whereas when I took my next role at Dow AgroSciences, I was asked to come and start up a
brand new business analytics team.
So, I went and hired a small team.
And really, we were just starting from scratch and trying to get analytics use cases going.
And everything was in terms of project and use cases and just trying to get momentum and get
buy-in from various stakeholders.
Whereas where I'd come from a place where there was no major decision made unless the
analytics team signed off on it.
And it was such an integral part of how decisions were made.
So, it was quite a learning experience and to go to a place where we had to sort of prove
ourselves.
And so, the Dow AgroSciences role took me and my family here to Indianapolis, Indiana.
Now, Dow AgroSciences doesn't exist.
So, Dow and DuPont merged to become Corteva.
And that was happening while I was there.
I had a really great experience with Dow.
And then here in Indianapolis is the headquarters for Eli Lilly.
And I had the opportunity to come into Lilly and basically take an advanced analytics team
of PhDs in statistics and operations research, et cetera, and grow that team and expand it
across the globe to be not just U.S. centered, but also Japan, China, Europe, et cetera,
and as well as expand our different types of work we're doing within the U.S.
So, really great opportunity to work and learn in a highly regulated space of how analytics
can make a difference.
And then two years ago, this is during the pandemic, so February of 2021, I had the opportunity
to come here at Zoetis with just an amazing opportunity to basically create and lead a
brand new business insights and analytics team.
And so, basically, I was given like a blank sheet of paper to draw the organizational
design, write the job descriptions, and go and hire the team to accomplish the vision
of leading in digital and data analytics, which is one of the company priorities that's
been publicly stated.
And just recently, that priority was reworded slightly to be now we're going to power the
business through digital and data analytics capabilities, so really, really happy about
that.
So, I'll come back and talk a little bit more about the team, but kind of finishing the
story here.
On the personal side, my wife and I have five kids.
You can see our picture there.
Our oldest is going to get married this summer.
Very expensive.
I know.
So, just prepare for any of you parents out there, have kids in that, you know, getting
ready to get married stage.
Start saving now, especially if you have daughters, okay?
So, anyway, we're in that phase right now.
And I also, you know, for fun, I've competed in things like, you know, Ironman triathlons.
I've completed six of those.
I've qualified for and completed and competed in the Boston Marathon as well.
That was an amazing experience.
Took me more than 10 years of effort to actually go and qualify to be able to run into Boston,
which is a whole story in and of itself of how I use data and analytics to help me get
there, which is so cool.
So, maybe if we have time later on, we can talk about how data analytics helped me to
facilitate improving to get to where I can qualify for Boston.
And back in college, this is when I was at BYU as an undergrad, I was a former competitive
ballroom dancer.
You can see from that picture there.
I was having way too much fun, as you can tell, as an undergrad on the ballroom dance team.
And also, when I was between my freshman and sophomore years of college, I took a two-year
leave of absence to serve a mission for my church.
And in these types of situations, we are not, we don't get to choose where we go or what
language we speak.
And I was asked to go to Argentina, so live there for two years and learn to speak Spanish.
Entonces, si algunas personas se hablan Español, podemos hablar Español después.
So I learned a little bit Spanish there and try to keep that up a little bit every day.
So that's a little bit about me and my background, and to kind of go through the team a little
bit.
So, but before I jump into that, any questions that pop up, I'm going to talk through kind
of the genesis of the team and kind of the org structure and how we work.
Any questions?
I can't tell.
There is an anonymous question that I think is exactly what you're talking about.
The question is, how do you go about building a data science team from scratch?
Great question.
So that's exactly what we had to do here.
Wasn't planned.
Yeah.
So I've had to do this twice now.
This is the second time.
The first time was when I was brought into Dow AgriSciences, and that was a much smaller
team, smaller scope that was just for the commercial kind of scope.
In this case, Zoetis is, just a little bit of background on the company, Zoetis is the
largest animal health company in the world.
So it's an $8 billion company with 13,000 or so employees globally.
So if any of you have dogs or cats, then very likely there's a chance that your dogs or
cats are being prescribed Zoetis medications from your veterinarian, or any of you are
associated with livestock farming.
So cattle, beef or dairy cattle, pigs, chickens, sheep, and even salmon.
So fish farming as well.
We have products to help to serve those animals.
So a little bit about the company, and it's really great to be in this place where our
mission is to help improve the world by improving the health of animals.
Those that are companion animals, as well as those that are used to help feed the world.
So in 2020, we had a new CEO, Kristen Peck, that took the helm.
And one of the first changes she does was to bring in a new chief information officer
who is Wafa Mamili.
And I had known and worked with Wafa at Eli Lilly previously, and she is just an absolutely
spectacular leader.
You can go and Google Wafa Mamili afterwards and read all about all the words and the great
leader that she is, as well as Kristen.
So Wafa came in and completely took a new direction into the company to be technology
and digital focused.
And that's where the priority of leading in digital and data analytics came about.
And that was really the foundation of why my team was created and funding it.
So not just words.
We don't say, hey, by words we're supporting you, but actually by dollars and resources.
And so I was brought in along with others to build this data, this business insights
and analytics team.
And so one of my first responsibilities was to understand what the business needs are
and to understand how we can play a role in that.
And when I came in, I realized that there were some data scientists and pockets of data
science throughout the company, mainly in our U.S. commercial, which is our major commercial
unit, as well as in our R&D group, there were data science statisticians, et cetera, in
those areas.
And so we didn't want to focus on those areas at first because we knew there was already
ongoing work there and support.
And so what we did was design the organization to be one where we had dedicated focus of
data analysts.
So those that are not necessarily have master's and PhDs in data science, but have bachelor's
or so forth degrees in data analytics type of degree areas that we can focus in particular
areas.
And then I designed a pool of data scientists that could then be deployed across any of
the use cases and could be very flexible kind of a pool there.
And so we focused a lot of our initial work in the area of manufacturing and supply chain
as well as our international commercial business, where there was very little or none in terms
of data science support.
And so they were immediately, there's so much pent up demand in these spaces that it didn't
take long for us to generate momentum in those areas.
Then we also did things like with finance and HR kind of other enabling functions, but
we focused mainly on our manufacturing supply chain and our international commercial.
And as we gain momentum, we've expanded now to more use cases within the U.S. commercial
as well as in our R&D space.
So in terms of designing the organization, I basically just designed to have an analytical
lead.
So an analytics lead.
So an analytic lead that I see as a person who's a translator between what are the needs
of the business and what are the analytic solutions that can help to solve those needs.
So someone that understands analytics very well, but also understands the business problem
that can do that translation.
So I have analytics leads for each of those areas, and then data analysts that report
to them, and this pool of data scientists that work across all of those verticals to
serve the needs across each of those areas.
So that's a little bit about the org design and what we came up with.
And then it was just going about hiring the team, writing the job descriptions.
I see, just kind of to take a quick glance here, I see Catalina Moreno, I'm going to
call her out.
She is one of our top and excellent senior data scientists.
So kudos to Catalina.
What I'll talk about a little bit later are some of the really great work that she has
helped to build.
So I'm really grateful to have her here.
If there's other, so what is data scientists are on the call that I'm missing as I'm scanning
through, I apologize for that.
So hiring the team was the next thing.
And that took several months to do that.
One of the key factors for us was being able to be flexible in terms of location.
I don't know how many of you are considered to be remote employees, but I was hired in
during the pandemic and I was told, look, you're in Indianapolis, but we're a New Jersey
based headquarters.
We want you to be in New Jersey if you want to, but you don't have to.
And so I said, well, I think we're going to stay here and they're like, okay, great.
So you're remote now.
So when I hired the team, it was always a remote option if they wanted to stay remote.
Some of them wanted to be able to go into the office at times.
But that was really the key to be able to recruit people from all over the globe, actually.
So not just in the US, but leave that flexibility for remote work.
And so basically all of our meetings every day are virtual, which, you know, there's
a lot of pros or some cons to that.
A lot of flexibility.
We do miss that kind of face-to-face interaction.
And just as a side note, I was able to discover that there are about 10 or so Zoetis colleagues
that live here in the Indianapolis area, and we get together once a month for lunch.
And so that kind of gets that face-to-face interaction you need to take care of.
So I'd recommend that to anyone too.
If you're working remote and there's colleagues that live in your area, have a little chat
that you have, put that together and see if you can get together on a periodic basis
just to interact and meet new people.
So that answers a little bit of the question of the org design and the build, and we just
slowly built it up.
Just kind of rough sizing, we're about 25, so not like super huge, but a very powerful
and mighty team.
Very, very competent Catalina and team here.
They bring in a lot of experience from their previous roles or education and are really
making a big splash in the company.
So one of the things that I wanted to talk through is how we have helped to promote data
science in the company.
And so a lot of you are probably leaders or you're working in your companies trying to
get momentum in terms of making data science and the power of data science to be more prominent
in the company.
And so when I joined Zoetis, it was pretty early on, it's like within the first few months,
really noticing that, okay, there's some data science groups that exist and we're bringing
in data science team.
We don't want there to be confusion around, okay, why are there so many teams?
Who's doing what?
We wanted to be more united, be really a unified, one Zoetis team of data scientists.
So what we decided to do was to create this thing called the Zoetis Data Science Forum,
where we would meet once a month and share success stories with each other, share use
cases, share code and best practices.
And so it started off with roughly about 50 or so people that would attend across all
of these different data science areas.
And we met for several months, we'd be sharing things and it was great.
And then the attendance started to build up a little bit more and more, and then more
and more non-data scientists started to come in and want to be interested in what was going
on.
And so it was at that point we realized, well, wait a minute, why don't we open up this to
be much more accessible to anyone in the company, not just have really kind of technical kinds
of topics, but talk more about the business value and what's the business impact and have
the data science in there as well, but have it be in a very easy to understand manner
and then have that be a way of promoting what the great data science work is across the
company.
So as we started to do that, more and more people started to comment and enjoy it.
And then our CEO, Kristen Peck, got wind of what we were doing and wanted to come and
join one of the meetings.
And this was in September of last year, so nearly a year ago.
And with her joining, the meeting attendance bumped up by 50%.
And I'm going to show you a chart in just a minute to demonstrate that.
And afterwards, she was just so thrilled with how the meeting went.
She learned so much and wanted to continue to attend those meetings that she told her
administrative assistant that I want you to put this meeting on my calendar every single
month and I will try to come to as many as possible.
And I can tell you that in the past, I think nine or so months, she's been there about
six of the past nine times.
Our CEO personally attending the Zoetis Data Science Forum, and she has become one of our
greatest proponents.
In fact, in our town hall, just two weeks ago, she talked about the last week, she talked
about the Zoetis Data Science Forum in the global town hall, and how this is something
that you should all go to and participate in.
And by the way, over time, we've built up now where there's 300 participants.
And she's like, all right, JD's goal is to get 400.
So I want everyone to go to the Zoetis Data Science Forum and participate.
So that's been a tremendous help to have such senior leaders that are supportive of
these types of things.
And I go back to building a data science team, promoting the things we do and having the
resources and the advocacy that you really need to accelerate as a data science organization.
Having the CEO and your CIO, all those senior leaders, be not just supportive, but just
be strong advocates for what you do.
There's really no replacement to that.
It's incredible what you can do when you have that kind of senior level support.
And we are so fortunate to have that at Zoetis.
So let me pull this up.
One of our data scientists who's in Ireland, Vincent Tenanty, he normally joins this call.
I think he might be on vacation today.
Let me see if I can share my screen.
This is the app that he built.
And JD, can I dig into what you said a little bit about the CEO, right?
So Zoetis is a big company, not sort of like a five-person startup.
13,000 employees worldwide.
That's right.
Yeah.
So getting the CEO on board is no small feat.
How do you, what are some tips and recommendations you can give to people to form that kind of
relationship?
I take no credit whatsoever.
It's completely her.
Kristen Peck is just an A-plus CEO.
She is just, you can see her on CNN, you know, anyway, see her all over the news.
Honestly, so one of the things that we have is what's called digital fluency.
We were trying to raise the digital, you know, understanding, advocacy, you know, usage of
digital technologies in all its forms.
And so we have this initiative called digital fluency.
And our CEO is taking that completely serious to the fact where she said, okay, I want to
learn how to code an app, code an app.
And so our CEO, who's as busy as she is, you know, got some of our leaders who are, you
know, coders and can help her to mentor her how to code an app.
And she did it.
She taught her kids how to do it.
And so she learned how to code an app.
And then when it comes to these data science topics, you know, she's personally told me that she
considers herself a student trying to learn.
And so I wish I had like some secret way of helping, you know, you help your CEOs to be, you
know, more advocates of this.
But to be honest, it's just Kristen Peck.
It's all her.
She's a super supportive.
There are a lot of anonymous questions.
I'll pause and go there.
Sure.
Yeah.
Let's see.
Can you share about some of the key projects you and your team are working on?
Yes.
So and to answer that, let me just finish the story on the data science front.
Real quick, go in here and let me share the screen and I'll get to that because we use Posit in a lot of ways.
Okay.
So this is the app now.
Some of you use Zoom and we're using Zoom now.
I didn't realize this until just a few months ago that you can download the participant data of all those that attended your Zoom meetings.
And so we downloaded, I think you can only get like a year's worth of history.
I wish I had known this at the beginning.
But anyway, so we downloaded all this data and Vincent in his whiz bang, our coding skills, was able to really quickly put this together and show what's the meeting progress over the past more than a year here.
You can see what topic categories we've had.
VMRD stands for Veterinary Medicine R&D.
So we've had different categories of topics.
We've had over 800 unique attendees over the course of these many months.
And you can see here, in the past couple months, we've had over 300 attendees.
So there's 309 on that one and then 331, the one in April, and our CEO attended both of those as well.
So anyway, quick little visual and then I won't click on this because it'll show actually employee names in here.
But it also shows the attendees so we can track who has attended the most meetings, who has attended the most number of minutes.
So you don't just log in for one or two minutes, but you stay for the whole meeting, et cetera.
And so that's what this shows there.
Now, I will say that one of our top three attenders is Catalina Moreno, who's on the call right now.
So kudos to Catalina.
She has attended every single data science forum meeting since this beginning.
So perfect attendance.
Okay, so now going back to the question of some of our major projects.
I'm still getting over COVID here.
I would say that where we use POSIT the most is in the area of manufacturing.
So when it comes to how you can make a real impact, whether it be reducing waste, whether it be finding defects, whether it be you're noticing trends in the manufacturing process that over time that are drifting in the wrong way so you can make corrective action,
all that requires quick and easy visual access to data as well as the smart analytics to go on top of that to help you get alerts and to know when things are going the wrong way.
And so one of the things that Catalina and others, other really brilliant data scientists on the team have done is they've used POSIT as the base platform to build a continuous process verification tool.
Okay, and it actually has multiple facets to it.
So there's different modules to help you go through the entire process of, okay, I have all this data that's been ingested.
Now, how do I set control limits that make sense for this particular control metric of this product.
So I'm measuring this, whether it be percent dissolution or some kind of quality metric that happens at the end of the manufacturing process and that product and that site.
So for that particular combination.
What's the historical data look like and what are the control limits that I want to set and there's all kinds of rules, all the, you know, the shoe heart control chart rules.
What's it called, something Bell, electric bell. What was it, Kelly? I can't remember all the names of the eight roles there you can select from.
And so there's a module to then select the control chart limits.
And that'll only be given to a few, the access that will be given to a few of our manufacturing colleagues because that's pretty powerful to be able to set those control limits.
And then there's the more general module will be to have the continuous monitoring of those and another module that allows you to go in and actually make annotations.
So you can type in, okay, this particular data point is, you know, out of spec. Here's the reason why. And so that gets tracked.
Anyone can go back and see that of why it went out of control and as well as things like email alerting.
Okay. So your process is, is drifting out of control and hit the hit control limit. Now you'll get an email alert right to your inbox. And so then you can quickly go and investigate.
So this is something that hasn't been widely, you know, utilized throughout the company. There's, there's, there's definitely control charting, you know, different sites, but not a universal tool that's been built to solve, you know, this, this control charting challenge across the board.
This is one of the, the, the benefits of the way that Kathleen and team have designed the database and asked to be scalable. And so it's not just a bespoke solution solution for just one of our major sites or two, but now the way the data comes in and the way they formatted it.
We're able to take the solution and basically say, you know, if, if you're, if your data is being loaded into SAP and so forth, or into our electronic batch record system, then you have it and be able to be exposed to you. You can create control charts, et cetera.
So for, you know, a couple dozen of our sites or so we're able to do this type of work. We're in the process now of validating it and having some alpha users use it. So we haven't fully deployed it yet. And our goal is to then have it be, you know, GMP certified so that we can make those types of GMP decisions based on that.
But we've made quite a bit of progress in that space of doing a continuous process verification.
So that's one.
And the next one, I really should have Kathleen to talk about it because she's the main scientist that's been doing it. So, Kathleen, I don't know if you want to come, come off mute and talk about the monoclonal antibody, but just kind of high level.
I'll try to do it justice. And, but, um, so one of our major products that we manufacture is a monoclonal antibody.
And, and these are four different products for dogs or cats.
One is Cytopoint, which is a product that is used for basically, you know, bitching, you know, dogs. The other one is for Labrella and Salencia. Those are for osteoarthritis in dogs and cats.
And these are monoclonal antibodies that need to be manufactured as part of those drug substances.
And those of you that are involved in monoclonal antibody manufacturing, it's complex. There's a lot of variables. It's, it's, it's a difficult thing to, to really, you know, get your handle on.
So, one of the things that, that Catalina and team have done is they have, they have built a Posit app that takes a lot of these, you know, real time, I'll call it real time, but very close to real time process data from the batches that are being, you know, actually, you know, scaled up and grown, you know, in our, in our bioreactors to be, you know, on our cloud platform,
deposit and then present it back to the users as, you know, I'll call it near real time visuals of what's going on with the current batches as well as some smart analytics.
So, we have another data scientist involved in this that's from our team in Austria, who built some algorithms to help detect when these very complex multivariable, you know, relationships show an out of control signal and then send that signal to, you know, could be an email alert or just signal it on the actual chart itself.
And, and this has been extremely valuable for one, it's, it's really hard for these shop floor engineers to be able to get access to data because they might have to, you know, log into SAP, download a spreadsheet, or they may have to log into their MES system, download data to Excel, manually, manually, you know, manipulate it, which is so cumbersome.
Whereas now we have it all flowing, you know, automatically up into the cloud platform, which then can be, you know, easily and readily, you know, deployed through tools like Posit to be able to build these visuals and the smart analytics on top of that, to be able to make better decisions.
So that's, that's in the area of manufacturing. That's, that's the area that we've actually just scratched the surface. So, the monoclonal antibody manufacturing process has an upstream and downstream process. We've only just tackled the upstream part of one of those three products.
We want to do upstream and downstream across all three products and scale across multiple sites. So, we've only done one site, you know, upstream only out of one product. So, you can see we have a lot more we can scale and a lot more opportunity to, to increase the value of these, you know, tools housed in Posit across our manufacturing network.
So, that's a little bit more coming. I can keep going. There's a whole lot more, more things, but Robert, do you want to, is there any other questions I should tackle or want me to keep going on more, more use cases?
There is a question that was asked in the, in the chat by Ama. Sorry if I'm mispronouncing your name. I don't know if you want to ask it live. I'll give you a few seconds, but if not, I'll assume that I'll ask it. Thanks for sharing your experience.
Oh, come on in.
Thanks for having me. I just wanted to go straight to the point that we were saying about this time. I'm based here in the UK, in London, and I'm a student presently working on a startup with my co-founder. So, I was surprised because it's a tech-focused startup.
And so, I was like asking myself, USP, and how you actually come in, setting up, let me say, a small practice. Like, I don't, I don't practice with a team, but just getting the data, the data practice in-house, I mean, with a small team, just basically three of us. Yeah. And so, that's what I was like coming from because you work with big companies. So, I was like wondering in my institution, how do I go about that?
Yep. Got it. And I can see that the, thank you for that question. I can see your questions here typed up in the chat. I did have a little bit of that experience when I did a kind of startup business analytics group earlier in my career at Dow AgriSciences. Basically, I came in and I was given the headcount to hire three people. So, there were four of us.
So, a small and mighty team. I'm really dedicated to help make a difference using data and analytics in our commercial space. And I learned a lot from that. I mean, I learned a lot from mistakes and actual successes. So, let me tell you some of my mistakes, and then maybe that'll help guide you. And I've tried to learn from those mistakes as I've built this new team here at Zoetis.
So, one of our first mistakes was to try to tackle too many things at once. And so, you know, part of it is like, okay, this is a really powerful capability. We want to make a big difference. So, let's try to go as many places as we can. Now, there's some value to trying to, if you don't really know where the value is, you may kind of try to do quick proof of concepts in many places and whatever one is successful, then you focus on that.
But I think we just spent too much time trying to work on some inherited projects that we got instead of really trying to focus on where's the real biggest impact going to be. It took us about two years to get to the point where we're like, okay, we found an area that can really make a difference.
And then by the fourth year, that's when things started to really happen for us. And that's when we narrowed our focus, and we honed in, like put all of our efforts on just a couple things. We're a small team, we can only take on so much. Just focus on one or two things and just really do well at that.
And, you know, you're this thing, this cliche about quick wins. Well, it's a real thing. Having some, showing some progress along the way, you know, your senior leaders, they want to know that they're not just wasting their money by bringing on an expensive data science team that's going to just go off and do, you know, academic, you know, exercises.
But are going to actually make a real difference.
Sorry, still getting over COVID here.
And so, again, my advice would be narrow in, focus on the highest value areas with maybe two, one kind of shorter term, quick win, and one kind of longer term, according to the company priorities.
Hope that helped. Next question.
There is a question from Sarang. Sorry if I'm mispronouncing your name. Give you a second and ask it live if you'd like.
Sure. Thanks for sharing your experience. It's been a really good session. My question was, what approach do you use to go from like proof of concepts to production ready apps, especially from security data governance and scaling perspective?
Yeah.
Good, good. So we, we created up front a six step process where, where we, we kind of went through each this sort of stage gates to get to, you know, all the way to, you know, value, you know, long term value.
And the first step is identification slash prioritization. And so we had a, so for our manufacturing and supply chain leaders, we had a small steering committee of leaders and analytics leaders that came together and identified and prioritize the highest value use cases.
And that was the first step. Once they identified those, then we did the second step, which is feasibility, where we took a little bit of time to gather the data to, to look at the, the data available.
Do we have enough data and the right kind of data to do a proof of concept? And if so, then we went to the next stage, which was proof of concept. And here's where we would build.
You know, it's, it's, we're talking, the ideal would be between two and four weeks quick proof of concept using the data that we have sort of in a sandbox or offline. We're not building production ready code. We're not building something that's ready to go, to go live. We're just trying to prove the value.
So that's really the idea of a proof of concept. Two things. Can we do it? And does it have the value? Those are the two questions we're trying to answer with a proof of concept.
And if the answer to both of those is yes, there's real business value and we were successfully able to do it.
Then we go to the fourth stage, which is the pilot. And that's where we would make it more production ready. Here's where we were going to, you know, partner with our data engineering team to take the analytic solution and put it into production on a small scale.
And think of it as, you know, maybe one manufacturing site, one line, you know, kind of thing where you're not scaling it across, you know, many different places, but, but being more deliberate in how you do it. And this is a, this thing, it's kind of a risk based approach.
And we were given permission to fail. A lot of the proof of concepts succeeded. There were some that did not. Some, or some succeeded, but maybe didn't have as much value as we anticipated. They were good, but maybe not as high.
And so focusing on those highest value proof of concepts going on to the next stage of piloting. And then those, those pilots that are successful. For example, the, what I talked about the monoclonal antibody is very successful. We want to scale that to other, other sites, other products, other stages of the process.
And, you know, leverage what we learned there and scale it across other areas. And so that's that scale up, you know, stage, which would be after the stage five is scale up after piloting.
And the last stage is once we scaled it up as sustaining. So how do we sustain the value long-term? And so those six stages are kind of how we thought about it up front. And as a team, you know, we had, we had the team size, but also some, some resources for partner support.
So we had also some consulting, you know, support to help us scale faster. And within the first year or so of us getting started, the total number of use cases in our, in our, in our use case tracker was about a hundred in various of those six stages.
You know, some, some were just ideas, some were, you know, being, you know, prioritized somewhere in the feasibility step, some of the proof of concept, et cetera. So, but from there now we've taken the most high value of those, and we're actually focusing more on those and how we can pilot them and scale them.
Hope that answered your question.
And in a regulated environment, maybe that was a part of it.
So, honestly, we're a little less regulated than, than human health, you know, is inherent animal health.
But we still have, you know, the, the regulations in terms of clinical trials, registrations, we have to do, you know, GMP, all those kinds of things, you know, on the manufacturing side as well.
If I may tack on to that question, in terms of your stack, do you only use R and POSIT, or do you have any other technologies that weave in to the broader analytics platform that you have?
Yeah, yeah. So we, we use, we use a lot of tools, I would say. We're trying to consolidate into one kind of workspace, but we're not, we're not dictating to every data scientist that you have to use, you know, this tool or have to use that, that language.
We've got Python programmers, we've got R programmers that are very strong in both of those. POSIT's nice because it allows you to do either one of those.
We also use Databricks as a way to use, you know, Spark and Python code or R code as well, but mainly Python. And a lot of the Azure tools are what we use as well. So we're, we're an Azure shop.
Thanks.
Yep.
There's a question from Bill. Bill, are you still here?
I suppose not. Can you talk about your relationship and work style and challenges within IT and or regulatory department?
Yeah. So technically we were within our IT organization, but we rebranded. So IT kind of has this connotation of, you know, network and laptops and all that stuff. So we're called Zoetis Tech and Digital, Technology and Digital.
And, and because WAFA came in and restructured all that, it's been just a very vastly different, you know, culture and landscape than it was prior to her coming on and making those changes.
So the work style is, is very collaborative and very supportive in terms of our analytics initiatives. We have support across the board. Everyone is aligned with that strategic priority of leading in digital and data analytics or powering our business through digital data analytics solutions.
And so I would say that, that it's been, it's been great. Now, one of the challenges is, is sometimes, so we have a, we have business partners within our, within IT or ZTD Tech and Digital that are pointed towards each of those areas. Now they're responsible for all of the technology and digital needs.
So say for, you know, U.S. commercial, just to pick one. Now, if we have a data science use case with U.S. commercial, we just need to make sure that we're coordinating with those business partners within ZTD that are interfacing daily with their U.S. commercial, you know, colleagues.
And so that we're staying coordinated. That's really one of the challenges is not going off kind of on our own, but they're really making sure that we're involving the right people.
So with, so with all those various sources, have you standardized on certain data formats? Like you say, like we'll accept, you know, CSV files, JSON files, whatever.
Yeah. So within Azure is our data Lake, you know, we've created data Lake within Azure and honestly, you know, how the data engineers ingest it. I think it can come in many different formats.
We land it into a raw zone. Then from there it gets transformed, put into Parquet, into, into our, you know, governed zone. And from there it can be consumed among, you know, various downstream applications and consumers and data scientists, et cetera.
So, yeah, a lot of different ways. I think Javier has his hand up. Javier, did you want to ask a question?
Hey JD, thanks. This has been really interesting. I joined late, but I'm at a healthcare insurance provider, managed care business. And we're, we're, there are several teams already using, you know, Azure modules and apps and Power BI.
I'm more on like the data science side. So I don't really touch those tools too often. So I'm a bit in the dark in terms of their capabilities. But one thing I do want to research more, it's the R integrations that might make the Power BI dashboards faster.
This is something, again, I haven't researched at all, but I didn't know if you're using any kind of like R backend for, you know, powering sort of the Power BI visuals.
That's a great question. No, we, I don't know of any instances of that. The, the backend piece, you know, the data for our Power BI are from, you know, basically, you know, Azure. So we use data factory or, you know, SQL or something, data transformations, data storage, and then the Power BI dashboards are just built on top of that.
And so we use R for, you know, the way we think of it as, you know, so the whole, the whole process of data is there's source systems, then they get loaded into the data lake and it's raw format, it's transformed, then it's governed, it becomes our data source.
And I think of everything that we do in data science as downstream of that curated governed data. And so the apps that we build using Posit are downstream of that production data.
And the Power BI dashboards are also downstream of that production data, but we don't have Posit in the middle. So we don't necessarily use Posit as a, you know, data engineering platform to create the data in its format.
I think, you know, in general, we would prefer to have the data engineering steps be done within kind of Azure data factory, you know, all the SQL and all the massaging, curating the data to happen there and have the data ready for consumption, you know, downstream of that.
In general.
No, that makes sense. Thank you.
The most upvoted question on Slido is, how do you decide slash design requirements for DS, which I'm assuming is data science versus DA, which I'm assuming is data analysis, other than their academic background?
Great question. So we have created just last year and launched what we have is the career framework, career progression framework. And this came out after I designed the org. So let me kind of give both of those and how they come together.
So when I first designed the org, the idea was that we wanted to hire people that can be really good at manipulating data that can create visuals, create dashboards that can communicate well with the business, but don't necessarily have an advanced degree in data science.
So, you know, analytics is a spectrum. There's this whole spectrum continuum between someone who, you know, on one end is, you know, competent and familiar with data analytics tools and capabilities, but not necessarily, you know, you don't have, you know, years of math background and all the math that's underneath it.
Whereas someone who has an advanced degree in analytics, multiple years of grad school, you know, has, you know, all the mathematical foundations behind and really knows it very well. And, you know, there's all this space in between. And so we felt like there was a lot of value in having, you know, both ends of that spectrum.
And so the design was to have some data analysts who have, you know, bachelor's degrees. And so the answer to the question is probably degree being kind of the most strong indicator of what a data analyst would be.
But basically these are people that don't want to necessarily build models. They want to, they're interested in data engineering, they're interested in data visuals, they're interested in, you know, solving those problems kind of more of a descriptive way and aren't as interested in, in kind of machine learning or AI. Okay. There's, we have people that are like that.
And those are our, our key, you know, data analysts and they're a smaller group. We have a much bigger group of data scientists and data scientists are those that have those advanced degrees in data science, statistics, et cetera. And, and then they, they really want to focus on building the models and refine those models, you know, MLOps, all those kinds of processes.
And so we have both those. Now in, you know, late last year, we, all of ZTD or Zoologic Tech and Digital rolled out a career progression framework where we connected those together. And so data analysts that wanted to progress to be a data scientist would have that opportunity.
It may mean that they have, you know, many more years of experience or maybe they get a master's degree along the way. And, and, you know, we're a company that supports our, our team members in, in, you know, furthering their education. And so we would, you know, help them, you know, along the way to, to get further education. And so they would have an opportunity to progress and to go, you know, higher levels, you know, in the company in terms of, you know, being an individual contributor within data science.
So I hope that answered the question. We both are highly valued and needed, used for different, you know, parts of the whole puzzle.
Abdullah, I see you have your hand raised.
Hello.
Yep.
Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much for this interesting talk. So, just I have some question, because just now you are talking about the background, the background, actually my background in statistics.
Recently, I finished my PhD and applied on the, on the computational statistics.
So, so, so in my, so in my journey when, when I did my PhD, I, I took a lot of coding for the R, especially for the, especially for the R coding.
So, so, and that's, so from, from that day, so I am really interested to just involve myself in the, in the, you know, in the, in the data science area.
But, you know, still, still, still, I don't know the way, because, okay, for me, I have knowledge for the statistics, but I think the coding is not much, because it's just for R, for me.
Is it, so what is your advice for, for, for my, okay.
Yeah, yeah, and, and the landscape has drastically changed from when I was a grad student 20 years ago.
So, when I was a grad student, I did most of my dissertation research in SAS, but I also use R, so, so hopefully not offending any of the R people here, but yeah, so I did, I did it in both.
And, you know, since then Python has becomes very popular and more and more new technologies keep coming out. So, yeah, I don't know if I can fully answer your question other than say that getting real job experience.
And then, and then learning new skills along the way. So job experience on with constantly learning is really the best way to continue to advance yourself in your career.
There's the technology landscape is constantly evolving. There's new things coming out all the time. So trying to stay on top of those and learn those new skills.
As well as just getting real world experience and, you know, being in grad school, you know, is one thing, getting out and doing an internship or getting a real, real job where you're solving real problems.
You know, that's where the rubber hits the road, in my experience.
Thanks. Yep. So I see a couple of questions in the chat here. So, Oscar says, from a leadership perspective, what strategy or sources do you use to try to anticipate where data science analytics world will be going next.
Or do you follow more.
Yeah. Oh boy.
You can almost cobble in the next question about. Yeah.
So, yeah, ask Chad GPT. Right. What's the next big thing.
So I get, I get some, I get, I get a couple of daily emails that come in from, I think one is a CEO, CIO journal, which has some technology headlines. So I try to keep up with some of the technology trends and companies what they're doing.
So I'd say LinkedIn.
Just try to stay plugged in whatever source you want to stay plugged into those kind of feeds it doesn't take long to read some highlights, and, you know, the title of the article was just brief summaries you can get through those pretty quickly.
So I would say, you know, there's some people that are real forward thinkers I would also say that some of the most forward thinkers are really in the areas of like joint ventures or startup areas.
These people that are thinking about new business opportunities. They're seeing things they're seeing trends and they're putting lots and lots of money to it, whenever you put your money where your mouth is that to me says okay there's something there that we should pay attention to.
And so there's a few kind of forward thinkers out there that I've come across there in the, you know, kind of early stage investing, you know, space.
A lot of them, you know, from California that are that are thinking, you know, far ahead of where a lot of us are in terms of these technologies and where they're going.
You know, and so some of these people saw chat GPT coming you know well in advance they knew that this this type of tsunami would come and they're already starting to create startups that would kind of ride the wave early on.
So question, you must have been asked about how chat GPT. Okay.
So, yeah, the whole generative AI space has been an absolute tsunami of interest that has come from Kristen Peck from waffle all the senior leaders to us as an analytics team to try to tackle and and we were able to onboard some of the generative AI tools using our Azure and Microsoft partnership.
And we're starting to test those out. We're very early stages in that.
I attended a call last month with probably 50 or so CIOs from various companies and and we're not too far behind there's some companies that are farther ahead and their generative AI.
You know, use cases and so forth. But what we're what we're doing is we're kicking the tires on the tool testing them out, and we have a couple of use case areas that we're going to start to dive into here shortly.
In terms of how these generative AI tools can be used within these what a spiral. That's one thing that's really important.
The public version, you know, just word of caution for all you out there never put company proprietary information or customer information into the public chat GPT, we've already seen some headlines of some bad actors that have done that and the consequences of that.
We've onboarded these tools within our as well as firewall. So it's all you know privatized and any, you know, internal data that we use stays within the internal network. And so that's the type of, you know, experimentation and use cases proof of concept. So we're going to tend to work on next year.
fitting question that got up voted in slide of it, I think, is a good one for the top of the hour as we conclude and it's it's essentially if I can summarize, you know, so Edison you and your team sound awesome. How, uh, how can they get hired?
Oh, yeah, there you go.
Well, hey, I would say that connect with me on LinkedIn. I like to connect with as many people as possible. Stay connected that way constantly search the job board. So we, you know, we had this initial hiring wave that happened when I joined Catalina is one of those hires. Thank you, Catalina for doing this.
She's a rock star. And so we're always looking for great talent out there. And so I was just saying we'll stay connected. You can find me on LinkedIn. I'm happy to connect and there's jobs that are posted. I would say that there are some jobs, not necessarily my team, but there are other data science teams within Zoetis that I know have been hiring. So definitely check the job listings within careers.zoetis.com
And I just poke at that a little bit. What are some like soft skills or, you know, sort of team skills that you look at in candidates?
Um, so I think of it in terms of a couple different dimensions. One is, is the analytics skills dimension. And that's just kind of a, that's table stakes, you have to be able to talk the talk, walk the walk, you have to be able to code, you have to be able to do the stuff.
And so, you know, that your technical expertise is absolute must have the next dimension, I would say, is more interpersonal side. So it's being able to communicate, being able to understand how to best communicate with others, how to work with others that don't have a technical background.
Um, and, and, uh, so there's a lot around the communication dimension. There's really a third dimension in my mind, which is more of business understanding business acumen. Now I hire people. I don't expect them to have any animal health background. I didn't have any animal health background.
But we do anticipate that people will take the time to learn it and try to, uh, you know, expand and what are the company products? How do we make money? Who are our customers? You know, what are their needs and to really understand the business side of it.
Cause that's, at the end of the day, that's what we're here for is to help our customers, help our company be successful. So three things, analytics dimension, I have to have, you know, kind of baseline level of competency, communication, soft skills, being able to understand and communicate well, and then having the business acumen to go with that.
Awesome. And, uh, we're at the top of the hour. So we always ask, how can people get in contact with you? I think you already said LinkedIn, but also any, uh, parting thoughts or things you're, you're super jazzed about, you know, round out.
So my boss and I got interviewed by Forbes magazine, uh, just recently. And so if you look on May 2nd, you can see an article there on Zoetis. So if you just, um, if you just actually Google my name, JD Williams Zoetis, it'll show up on one of the things there, but it's, uh, it's on Forbes.
Encourage you to go and read the article to talk about what we're doing in terms of analytics and data science and Zoetis. So thank you all. Appreciate the opportunity. Sorry. I wasn't here about a month ago. COVID's nasty. Don't recommend it for anybody. Stay away from COVID.
Awesome. Well, thank, thank you, JD. Thank you everyone who joined and participated. We'll be here next week. Uh, same time, same place. Have a great day, everyone.
Thank you all.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai